TELCODOCS-1506 Telco CORE Reference Design Specification (#65732)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/telco-core-load-balancer.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * telco_ref_design_specs/ran/telco-core-ref-components.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="telco-core-load-balancer_{context}"]
= Load Balancer

> New in this release::

Reviewer: Is this section needed?

Not applicable.

Description::

MetalLB is a load-balancer implementation for bare metal Kubernetes
clusters using standard routing protocols. It enables a Kubernetes
service to get an external IP address which is also added to the host
network for the cluster.
+
Some use cases might require features not available in MetalLB, for example

> stateful load balancing. Where necessary an external third party load

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stateful load balancing. Where necessary, you can use an external third party load
```

> balancer might be used. Selection and configuration of an external load

Reviewer: ```suggestion
balancer. Selection and configuration of an external load
```

balancer is outside the scope of this specification. When an

> external third party load balancer is used the integration effort must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
external third party load balancer is used, the integration effort must
```

include sufficient analysis to ensure all performance and resource
utilization requirements are met.

Limits and requirements::

* Stateful load balancing is not supported by MetalLB. An alternate load
balancer implementation must be used if this is a requirement for
workload CNFs.
* The networking infrastructure must ensure that the external IP address
is routable from clients to the host network for the cluster.

Engineering considerations::

> * MetalLB is used in BGP mode only for Core use models.

Reviewer: does "Core" need to be capitalized?

> * For core use models MetalLB is supported with only the OVN-Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For core use models, MetalLB is supported with only the OVN-Kubernetes
```

> network provider used in local gateway mode see `routingViaHost` in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
network provider used in local gateway mode. See `routingViaHost` in
```

> the Cluster Network Operator section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the "Cluster Network Operator" section.
```

> * BGP configuration in MetalLB is expected to vary depending on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* BGP configuration in MetalLB varies depending on the
```

requirements of the network and peers.
* Address pools can be configured as needed, allowing variation in addresses, aggregation length, auto assignment, and other relevant parameters.

> * The values of parameters in the BFD profile should remain close to the

Reviewer: spell out BFD at first use?

defaults. Shorter values might lead to false negatives and impact
performance.

> 

Reviewer: remove empty line
